

Q2/- What is the HTTP protocol, explain about the HTTP request and the HTTP response.

     HTTP full form is hyper text transfer protocol.
     wheever we want to communiate between client web browser to web server we need 
     to use http.
     http is one type of instruction set to communiate between two different technology

     HTTP request:

     this request is distributed in three parts
     1)intial request
     2)request header
     3)request body

    ->this intial request is also have 3 parts in which first one is method type
    there is GET,POST,PUT,DELETE this four methods is there.
    we can select any of above method

   ->second part is uri in that we have to write the page name .uri means universal
    resource identifier that identify your html page which wil be deploy in web browse.

   ->The last part is version in that we select the http brower ex-1.1,2.x etc

   ->Second part is request header in that there is data in key value pair
     where key is fixed and value will change as per client request.

   1. Date : date and time on which request is made from the client.
   2. Host: ipaddress of the client.
   3. user-agent: from which browser the client has generated the request.
   4.content-type: type of the data coming from the request body (json, txt, xml, pdf, jpg)
   5.connection : live or lost(used in social medial platform to show you are online or not)
   6.cookies: name-value pair text (store you preference)

   we can create our headers also 

   -> third  part is Request body in which we send the data as per client requirment
   in json or xml or in any other format.GET and DELETE method doesnt have any request
   body.


   HTTP response:

  this request is distributed in three parts
  1)intial response
  2)response header
  3)response body

  ->first part is distributed in three parts status code,status code description and version.
   in status code it will show a code like 201,299 etc and description it will be
   mentioned the what that code stands for and version is same as http request.

  ->second part is response header in which here also key value pair is there.
  in that it's gives some additional information to client and guide the client
  while displaying the response

  here is some additional information 

  server : 
  last-modified : 
  refresh: 10 (after every 10 second web browser will refresh)
  date:
  connention: 
  content-type: "text/html"  , "application/json", "application/pdf" ,"application/xml"
  set-cookie : 
  etc..

  ->third part is response body which return the data for Webapplication it gives in html
   type format and for Webservice it return in raw data form
